# First Thoughts on Graph Search

I signed up for the Facebook Graph Search waiting list about one week ago. Just today I got to try out the new feature. The first thing I searched was the query "photos that I've liked". A seemingly endless stream of photos that I've happened to click like on since I first created my Facebook account in 2009, all suddenly appeared in front of me. Before Graph Search, finding all of this content would not have been easily done, if at all. But now, it gives people the power to score through the troves of data that Facebook has stored on you and your friends. And it's blazing fast.

The archival abilities of Facebook are truly amazing. And frightening at the same time. A three year old photo of you and your friends on a night out in town, that was lost and completely forgotten, could be found in a blink of an eye - and by anyone on your friends list. With poor privacy settings, that photo could be found by anyone. The ease of accessing such data with Graph Search is both a blessing and a curse. Of course one could use the feature for completely legitimate, non-creepy reasons such as [finding a pal to go trail running with](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SD951tHz38g), but there is no doubt that it will be used for more unsavory things like data mining, social engineering, and plain-out stalking.

The arrival of the Graph Search feature has brought up renewed discussion about privacy and its place in social media, but the truth is that privacy has been made irrelevant by the social web. Unless one makes a considerable effort to scrub personal data from the web, publicity should be expected. Tools like Graph Search have only made accessing the data behind personal social networks that much easier, and it will undoubtedly continue to be so. If you take issue with the feature, Facebook may not be the best option for you. You'd be a fool to think you can have complete privacy online in this day and age.